Modern neural network architectures represent a class of computational models, not literal models of biological neural networks.

The comparison comes up enough that it's worth pointing out the irony of mainstream architectures being as useful as they are *because* they make for a shitty model of biological neural networks. We initially attempted to mimic the literal biological function of the brain, but this didn’t get far because the complexity of actual neural tissue (spiking behavior, neurotransmitter dynamics, local learning rules, and nonlinear feedback mechanisms) was both poorly understood and computationally intractable to simulate. Early models captured only a sliver of what biological neurons do, and efforts to increase biological realism often led to systems that were too unstable, inefficient, or limited in scalability.

It became clear when back propagation made training neural networks feasible that they functioned, and were useful, for different reasons. Backprop and gradient descent leverage differentiable, layered abstractions that allowed optimization over vast parameter spaces, something biological brains don’t appear to do explicitly (it's a matter of debate if they do something that resembles this implicitly). These models work because they were developed in light of mathematical properties that make learning tractable for machines. In other words, neural networks work despite being poor analogs to brains, not because of their resemblance.

For quick examples, compare the usage of the same terms between neuroscience/psychology and machine learning. In cognitive science, attention can be described in the following manner:

>a state in which cognitive resources are focused on certain aspects of the environment rather than on others and the central nervous system is in a state of readiness to respond to stimuli. Because it has been presumed that human beings do not have an infinite capacity to attend to everything—focusing on certain items at the expense of others—much of the research in this field has been devoted to discerning which factors influence attention and to understanding the neural mechanisms that are involved in the selective processing of information. For example, past experience affects perceptual experience (we notice things that have meaning for us), and some activities (e.g., reading) require conscious participation (i.e., voluntary attention). However, attention can also be captured (i.e., directed involuntarily) by qualities of stimuli in the environment, such as intensity, movement, repetition, contrast, and novelty.

Attention in machine learning is clearly inspired by its namesake, but only related in the most abstract sense in describing a mechanism or process for assigning context-dependent weights on input data. It would be easier to compare it to some sort of dynamic hierarchical prior in a Bayesian modeling than to human attention. Which isn't to say that it's better or worse - just that using information selectively is accomplished in different ways and is useful for entirely different reasons. The terminology doesn't give you deep insight into how attention works in neural networks, it's more of a high level metaphor.